# NBA-All-Star-Analysis-Individual-Project-
By: Zo Morris

Introduction​:
In the NBA, individual players are more important and popular than in other team sports due to basketball's smaller team size and game rules. 
This has made the NBA a star-driven league, with the all-star game highlighting the best players each season. This research aims to analyze the performance and legacy of these players over 42 years in order to discover the greatest all-stars in modern NBA history.​

Dataset (final_data.csv): The dataset used is a representation of the season stats for each all-star from the years 1980-2022

Methods: The 3 main questions are:​

1. Who made the most all-star appearances between 1980-2022?​

2. Who were the players that only had one appearance?​

3. Out of all the all-star players, who has the highest career scoring average?​
   
Pandas was used to analyze numerical datasets, whereas matplotlib was used to create tables in the form of an image file.

Most All-star appearances​: 
To solve this question, we may need to use the group-by method (grouping player names) along with some aggregation. 
We will record each unique all-star year per player and add it to their specific summation, eventually using descending order. 

One All-star appearance​: 
This will be done with a similar method to the previous question, except with prioritization for players with a single appearance.​

Highest points per game​: 
The main method philosophy here will be calculating average and sorting them out. 
The points data will be considered numerical values, the mean of the scoring years will be calculated, and each cumulative scoring average will be compared in descending order. 

Results:
The results were truly fascinating! Some of them were truly unexpected, whereas others may have been easily predicted. 
Either way, they give us enough data to make various conclusions and discussions later on.​

Question 1's results:
we discovered that it is none other than LeBron James who has the most all-star appearances between 1980-2022. 
LeBron has an ironclad reputation for being the most durable player in league history and, as a result, his status as the all-star king is not too much of a surprise,
as he is the NBA's all-time leading scorer with nearly 40,000 points.​

Question 2's results:
Our result (displayed in the data folder) shows up to 95 players with only one all-star appearance.
This was surprising as i suspected to see more players having reoccuring appearances, but there were so many players who only made it in once.

Question 3's results:
Accounting for each year where an NBA player had an all-star appearance, it was revealed that Shai Gilgeous-Alexander was the player with the highest scoring average with 31.27 points per game.
This was the most surprising result to me as SGA has only had one all-star appearance and thus only had one year to be considered. Truly, Shai will have a promising career in the league.

Discussion:
Post-result topics:

What do these results indicate?:

I would say that Lebron's sheer number of all-star appearances,
while combined with his consistent play spanning over 2 decades, further strengthens his case for potentially being the greatest basketball player of all time.

The 95 players, who have only one all-star appearance, shows that it is very likely that every single all-star roster has a few players who will potentially never make another appearance in their career again.

SGA having the highest scoring average for all all-star players in history shows his promise as an all-time great player.

What would I change in the future for this topic?:

In the future, I would like to compile a dataset large enough to span the entire history of the NBA, where I can select and truncate specific eras (Like the 80's, 90's etc) and use their datasets to discover greater 
elements about the NBA's history.



References:
[EthanKeyes, Zeke Hall], [November 2023], [NBA All Star Players and Stats 1980-2022], [Version 1], [Retrieved 12/02/23 from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ethankeyes/nba-all-star-players-and-stats-1980-2022/data]
